ABBY: Previously on Dance Moms...
This is the competition that determines
who is dancing at Nationals.
-Do I have a solo?
-ABBY: Toughen up.
I have to worry about what's best
for the Abby Lee Dance Company
And if that means some people not dancing,
that's what it means.
-I forgot the whole dance.
-I know. What happened?
ABBY: Coming up on Dance Moms...
Girls, this is for Nationals.
The Candy Apple Dance Center
can't wait to beat your ass.
ABBY: Don't you understand
they should be afraid of you?
I was talking about
how my daughter's come 3,000 miles
to do three steps.
ABBY: And be lucky
she's doing those three steps.
I can't take it.
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪ Get up ♪
♪ Get on the floor ♪
♪ My world is with my girls ♪
♪ Living on the dance floor ♪
(upbeat music playing)
Let's go. Let's go.
Get in here.
Isn't this nice?
Lots of space, we can run our numbers.
Hello, everybody.
-Good morning.
-Hello.
Intensity Dance was intense.
I saw lots of mistakes.
And yet this was the week
where every solo needed
to strive for perfection.
This was the last competition
before we go to Nationals.
You were duly warned.
We won that 2011 National Title.
I want to win it again.
Now this week,
we're going to stay right here
in sunny Los Angeles.
But we are going
to the most famous zip code.
90210.
Sorry.
I'm sorry.
We are going to 90210,
Beverly Hills.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: We are going to the
Energy Dance National Invitational.
Several competitions are doing this now,
where they invite you
to come to their nationals.
So it's very prestigious
and quite an honor to be invited.
So let's get to the pyramid.
Paige, you know
you were going to be there.
You forgot your dance.
You have so much more talent
than you're able to show,
A, because of an injury
and B because you don't remember
what you're doing.
Next...
Nia, I thought you could have been better.
I need you to be just as strong at the end
as you are at the beginning.
Next...
I have Chloe.
ANNOUNCER: 6th place
is Miss Chloe with act number 59, "Ghost."
ABBY: Chloe,
you've been consistently in the top 5
for most of your life.
6th is not good enough for you.
Kendall, you came out there strong.
You were exciting.
You were energized.
Your tricks were clean.
Your movements were sharp.
You attacked them,
everything a great jazz dance needs to be.
When you started your turns,
they were a bit sluggish.
Even your mother pointed that out to me.
JILL: Kendall beat Chloe this week.
That's huge.
Kendall deserves
to be higher on that pyramid.
ABBY: Moving along,
Brooke.
You won.
You were in the overall high scores.
I was proud of you.
But you know what?
You are capable of doing more.
And you're lazy.
And you're sitting there
saying, this is good.
I can coast.
I'm still winning.
I'm still getting the platinum.
I can just step out there
and do one chin stand
and get a platinum.
That's what I see happening.
Next, Mackenzie...
it's the easy stuff that you mess up.
The roundoff back handspring was great.
The side aerial was great.
aerial walkover was great.
This?
Come on.
And Maddie, you're on top of the pyramid.
-Are you glad to be there?
-Yes.
CHRISTI: Abby's already defined Maddie
as her National winner.
ABBY: Was it better to win,
or better to sit in the audience,
while everybody else gets better?
It's better to win.
Maddie is on top
of the pyramid, of course.
Her performance alone put her there.
Now everyone is in the group routine.
And this group routine is very disturbing.
And the title is "My Last Text."
This routine should leave
the judges feeling something.
This week, we're doing
a group number called "My Last Text."
And it's really weird and scary.
ABBY: Energy Dance is allowing us
to do four additional routines.
Mackenzie, you're doing a solo this week.
Maddie, you will have a solo
because you just won the overall.
Brooke, you will be doing
"The Diary of Anne Frank."
Paige, you will not have a solo this week.
I want you to concentrate
on the group dance.
And I want you to remember it.
Nia, Kendall, and Chloe,
we're going to teach all three of you
the same choreography.
Originally, I thought that Chloe
would be my fourth solo selected.
But after she ended up sixth
and Kendall beat her
and Nia looked great in the group dance,
I don't know
if Chloe's the right choice, or not.
So you three, get your game faces on.
And remember, they're not your friends.
They're your competitors.
JILL: Abby gives out the solos.
She has one solo left to give out.
And the three of them
are going to have to compete
for this final solo position.
I think this is ridiculous and unfair.
I really, really want
for Kendall to have a solo.
She deserves it.
Moms, you are dismissed.
Girls spread apart,
grand plié in Second,
heel stretch in front.
So here's a car seat.
Okay, Maddie, get in
the passenger seat right there.
This number is called "The Last Text."
I have this vision.
We're going to put the kids in the car,
even though they're really
a little young to be driving.
Now you're in a car.
So when she turns, everybody--
everybody has to lean.
(laughs)
ABBY: I'm going to use Paige
as the driver.
She doesn't have to do too much.
Kelly will probably hit the roof.
But Paige is beautiful to look at.
They're on their phones.
And they're taking pictures of each other.
That's what little kids do.
And then in the music, boom.
There's a car crash.
On each tink, they're not hearing this.
If Maddie can pull this number
of with her acting skills,
it's going to win.
It's going to win everything.
Paige, for God's sakes,
you haven't even danced yet.
Sit up straight.
CHRISTI: I think having
Nia and Chloe and Kendall
dance against one another
for a solo is crappy.
Naturally, all the kids want it.
And you have to beat
your friend to get it.
HOLLY: My thought is that
I think it's ridiculous
that she already
has someone picked for that solo.
And I'm pretty confident
Abby doesn't want Nia to do that solo.
Push, two, three, four.
Now grab her
and pull her away from her, away.
JILL: Last week, she made it
crystal clear to all of us.
What you do this week--
that's why she gave everybody a solo--
is who gets what at Nationals.
Everybody who came in
score wise got a solo,
except for Kendall.
ABBY: Front.
So how I see it is--
KELLY: She's giving Chloe another chance.
Yep. She's giving it to Chloe.
But that's (bleep). Kendall beat Chloe.
It was Kendall's week.
So give it to her, then.
I'm worried your three kids
are going to be not focused now.
Because they're doing
a group dance right now.
And they're going
to be worried, oh, my God, oh, my God.
I have to compete
against my friends to get a solo.
But I also wonder
if that is another motivating factor
to try to teach those kids,
you need to want it.
But that's just not in Chloe's nature.
ABBY: Were you?
Did you almost--who
almost tripped over her?
All right. Guys, go grab a drink.
JILL: Vivi got a lot of solos.
MADDIE: Oh, my gosh!
(interposing voices)
Never text and drive.
This dance is so creepy.
CHRISTI: So the mom's and I
are all sitting outside.
And all of a sudden,
the girls burst through the door.
And everybody's,
like, freaked out a little bit.
And they're like,
oh, the music's really creepy.
And Mackenzie gets ejected from the car.
And I'm thinking, like,
what the hell kind of dance is this?
So like, we're all,
like, dying throughout the dance.
JILL: Who's texting? Who's the culprit?
-We all are.
-No.
-Paige dies first.
-JILL: Who's driving?
-Paige.
-PAIGE: I don't dance at all.
Chloe takes pictures of me.
CHRISTI: What do you mean,
you don't dance?
-She sits like this the whole time.
-No.
HOLLY: What do you mean?
You don't stand up?
I sit like this the whole time.
Doing what?
Just ignore her, Paige.
She's just doing it to be a mean person.
Oh, my God!
(reading) "Hi, Abby.
The Candy Apple Dance Center
can't wait to beat your ass
at Energy's National Invitationals.
XOXO, Cathy."
ALL: No!
Gianna gets a tweet from Cathy,
saying, like, the Candy Apples
are on their way to Nationals
to kick the ALDC's ass.
This is a whole new ball game.
They're going to be hungry for it, though.
I know. And they've probably been
working on this dance
-for, like, how long?
-Months.
And we're learning ours in two days.
I think knowing that
the Candy Apples are going to be here,
Abby is going to push the girls more.
So all the girls
need to step it up this week.
("Honey Bee" by The Kingmakers)
SINGER: ♪ Tastes so sweet ♪
♪ From her head to her feet ♪
♪ You know that's something
that can't be beat ♪
ABBY: Mackenzie has a solo.
It's music I've used before.
SINGER: ♪ Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honey bee ♪
It's called "Honey Bee."
But I think Mackenzie
is more of a killer bee.
Beautiful.
She's going to go out there
and sting her competition.
If Vivi-Anne happens to be
waiting in the wings
and gets stung, oh, well.
I hope she's not allergic to bees.
Girls, this is for Nationals.
I'm giving Brooke
"The Diary of Anne Frank."
Now Brooke learned this routine
about four weeks ago.
So she should have it down pat.
She can do these tricks in her sleep.
She's going to get out there.
She's going to be beautiful.
And she's going to nail it,
or she's going to be sloppy
and she's not going to win.
It's up to Brooke.
You have to realize
that nobody from Cathy's
is going to come close to you.
If you do this dance
the way I taught it to you,
you're going to win.
She has everything required
to be a National Title holder.
Hold, boom, run, run, run,
stop, spin, spin, spin.
Maddie's doing another contemporary solo
called "Telling Myself."
And it's telling herself,
I am back in the game.
I want to win.
I want it.
Yes. Yeah.
She's almost being a little cocky
and telling the judges,
I'm too good for you.
You don't deserve me.
SINGER: ♪ You don't deserve me ♪
♪ That's what I keep saying ♪
This is like what I say Melissa,
or we all say.
When Maddie's getting
better by doing this,
Paige has been sitting here
for two days doing nothing.
I know. But the other girls
were dancing, too.
-They're not sitting in a seat.
-There's a turn.
Is there a turn right there?
I think it's hard to dance
when others are ripping on you
right in front of your face.
Who's ripping on her?
We didn't say anything about Maddie.
KELLY: And Abby, by the way,
I was not talking about Maddie.
I was talking about
how my daughter's come 3,000 miles
to do three steps.
ABBY: And be lucky
she's doing those three steps!
Why?
ABBY: After she forgot
and screwed up her dance
and didn't do it
and forgot again a 11 years old?
What?
I'd get back to the pediatrician
and find out what's wrong, Kelly.
For real, find out what's wrong.
Go.
Let's go, Paige.
Brooke, you can leave class, too.
ABBY: You know what?
It's getting kind of old, Kelly.
You need to figure some new tricks.
Because this whole little temper tantrum
from a 40-something-year-old
woman is pathetic.
CHRISTI: I've seen Kelly
storm at a time or 20.
And this time it just feels different.
Abby said something so rotten about Paige,
I can't blame Kelly.
I would have done the exact same thing.
I get it.
We all get it.
We know exactly what you're thinking.
You're thinking
you're the world's worst mother
because you're allowed this to happen.
Has she done one thing with Paige
for Nationals this entire time
that would make you think
that she wants her here?
-JILL: No.
-And I said one word about it.
And she tells me I need
to take my daughter to the doctors?
I don't know
how much people think I can take.
I can't take it.
HOLLY: Lean on us.
If you can't do it,
lean on us and we will do it for you.
This woman is going
to give me a nervous breakdown.
I can't do it.
HOLLY: Kelly is a puddle
of tears right now.
She's distraught.
She's distressed.
She's had to watch Paige
being overlooked week after week.
And I'm not sure
she can take much more of this.
You can not let this woman win.
We need you.
That's fine. They can do it.
But I can't do this anymore.
This is just one more reason
why I think I need
to pull my kids out of this studio.
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: We walk into rehearsals
this morning
and Kelly is nowhere to be found.
If Kelly doesn't come back,
Abby can feel free to replace me too.
Because you know what?
We're a two-for-one.
No Kelly, no Christi.
Because I'm not putting up
with these people alone.
-Hey!
-Hi!
Look what the cat dragged in.
The party is here.
KELLY: I talked to my kids.
And they want to go back to practice.
They really want to do Nationals.
So I'm going to toughen up.
And we're going to finish out the year.
How are you going to react to Abby,
-once you see her?
-I don't know. I'm nervous.
So you haven't talked to her at all?
You know, I know her comment's
going to be, well, you left.
But I keep leaving
because she keeps doing things
to make me leave.
Like, what am I supposed to do,
just sit there and, like, take it?
Hello.
I need all of you.
We're going to do the solo audition final.
(tense music playing)
ABBY: I'm going to have an audition.
But Holly, Christi,
and Jill will be judging.
So the girls are actually
going to audition
for their own mothers.
SINGER: ♪ I love only silence here ♪
♪ There is noise all the time ♪
♪ I love sunny landscapes ♪
♪ I love the sky ♪
HOLLY: Abby maintains
that the moms will decide
who gets the fourth solo.
But we all know
who has the final decision,
when it comes to any dancing
at the Abby Lee Dance Company.
SINGER: ♪ The great woman who will save ♪
ABBY: Okay.
We're going to start with Jill.
I pick Kendall.
-I'm sorry. To me, a no-brainer.
-ABBY: Christi.
I obviously pick Chloe.
She's been with you
since she was two years old.
I think Chloe has been
a team player for a long time.
Holly?
I would say Nia.
I really enjoyed watching
her perform the piece.
All right. So we have a three-way tie.
JILL: This is a big waste of time.
Because ultimately, we all know
that Abby's going to pick who
gets the solo.
So Melissa, you get to break the tie.
Oh, my God.
ABBY: I put Melissa on the spot.
Because I am sick and tired
of her being goody-goody
and playing sides to everybody.
She's this one's best friend one day
and this one's best friend the next day,
talking about that one.
That's what she does.
I think that Nia
should get this opportunity
because she goes 100%.
And she has shown us
that she can do different.
Based on that performance,
you would put Nia on that stage?
-And I'm not saying you wouldn't.
-I'm not a judge. I'm a mom.
You asked us to base it
on that performance.
HOLLY: But she gave her opinion, so rest.
I'm sorry if that hurt your feelings.
-HOLLY: No, it doesn't hurt my feelings.
-JILL: I didn't want to know
about all the weeks
-she worked in the past.
-Silence.
JILL: I think this is ridiculous
and unfair.
Kendall beat Chloe fair and square.
Kendall deserves the solo.
Melissa, all personal issues aside,
who do you think
is going to give us the most points?
-And that's what a judge needs to do.
-Chloe.
MELISSA: I just said it.
And I'm not saying it again.
Because I don't want to hurt
anybody's feelings.
It's already done, Melissa.
We already knew.
Kendall, I think you were wonderful.
I do. I think you were great.
Well, I already knew
who was going to get it.
Of course we knew.
Because you wanted her to beat me.
JILL: This whole thing It's not fair.
It's not fair. It's just not fair.
Oh, my gosh.
It's a solo, Jill.
-Relax.
-JILL: That's right.
You relax, Holly.
Then relax.
I'm not dealing with this anymore.
This is ludicrous, absolutely ludicrous.
ABBY: You know what, Kendall?
You don't have to worry about it.
I would love for you to go and beat
the crap out of Candy Apples.
I'm not allowed to do any more solos.
-KENDALL: Thank you.
-You're welcome.
CHLOE: Good job, Kendall.
ABBY: Congratulations.
Thank you.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Hello, everybody.
Why does everybody keep warming up?
It's just going to be a long day.
This is the last day of the rehearsal.
I don't want to be cocky.
There's a lot of people
coming to this competition.
Some really, really tough schools
in the California area have been invited.
And I know that I always
have a target on my back.
I don't want any excuses.
Nobody's forgetting and running off.
CHLOE: My new solo is called "Silence."
And it has a lot of emotions
and I really like it.
I'm going to work the hardest
that I've ever worked on a solo before.
Because I really want
to make Nia and Kendall proud,
since they didn't get their opportunity.
ABBY: Okay, breathe.
-Listen to her breathing.
-ABBY: Breathe.
You okay? You got to breathe.
You're not breathing the whole time.
And there's breaths in there.
CHRISTI: I don't think Chloe
is going into Nationals
with the confidence that she should have.
I mean, Chloe got sixth last week.
And to be beat by Kendall, I think,
was a little bit of a blow to her
confidence.
I'm always the first to hug her
and say, oh, you know, it doesn't matter.
But I want her to do great at Nationals.
So maybe it's time that I push her
a little more than just coddle her.
Honey, you learned
that dance yesterday, okay?
And the difference between
what you did yesterday and today
is amazing.
You are not messing up everything.
-Okay?
-Uh-hmm.
Like, I know that you could go
do that dance, Chloe.
I know you can.
It doesn't matter what I know.
You have to know it.
Okay?
(tense music playing)
CATHY: Let me just give you a little bit
of background about this place.
It's a little under our budget.
This is a wonderful opportunity.
We're here in LA.
The owner of the dance competition
has seen us.
She gave us a personal invite.
Oh, there's people in here...
ay, ay, ay, ay, ay.
-That's a butt I don't want to see.
-MITCHELL: Didn't want to see that.
MACKENZIE: Oh, my God, Cathy.
Oh, my God.
What the heck?
Are they test crash dummies?
What are they doing?
-What's she trying to do?
-MITCHELL: What are those nails?
Ew. Okay. Well, you know what, guys?
-Studio B?
-Yeah.
Now I know why this was under our budget.
CHRISTI: Obviously, anybody can crawl
into Beverly Hills, these days.
Because they're even letting Cathy in.
ABBY: Girls, those dancers walked in
and immediately, you fell into it.
Don't you understand
they should be afraid of you?
CATHY: Yeah.
Since this is all about him and Chloe--
CATHY: Clean Chloe's Clock.
(all chanting) Clean Chloe's clock.
Clean Chloe's clock.
ABBY: Time to get ready, solos.
Let's do it.
Just to let you guys know,
I was just in the bathroom
getting a drink.
and they're out there,
chanting...
"Clean Chloe's clock!"
CHRISTI: Oh, give me a break, please.
Okay, Justice, what are you
supposed to look like?
You are telling a story, also.
ABBY: Go out there and beat Justice.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Girls, listen to me.
Do not even associate with Cathy.
Just turn and walk away.
So here we are.
It's Nationals.
We walked into Energy Dance
with our heads held high.
And I think that this
is going to be a great day.
Girls, come on.
This is Nationals.
You worked all year.
Every single day that you've been
in that studio rehearsing,
every weekend that we've flown
to a competition
has led up to this point today.
What you do on that stage
could change the rest of your life.
Understood?
Maddie, you were up first.
Chloe, I'm going to have to get ready.
Because we need to do some
psyching out with Justice.
CATHY: Come on.
Let's go.
Listen, Nationals--
this is it for us. Okay?
We go home after this.
And it would be nice if we could
leave here with a National win.
We have a confidence level
that knows that we're a classy act.
We have a wonderful routine
that is very heartfelt, that I think
that, finally, we may be able
to possibly beat Abby.
This is Nationals. It'd would be
great if we could pull out a win.
C-A-D-C.
ABBY: Sure enough, its Cathy,
making a complete idiot
out of herself and those poor kids.
How do they put up with it?
I would be mortified
if my teacher ever did that.
CATHY: No matter what the wide load
has to say about us,
we were invited.
And we have every right to be here.
ABBY: Don't forget, Chloe,
you're going backstage with Maddie.
Find Justice.
Get in his face.
Do one right turn.
CATHY: All right, Justice,
in the event that anybody
is backstage from Abby Lee
-and they comment--
-I say, good luck.
Good luck, that's right, smart boy.
And they comment--
don't let it rattle you,
if she would say something to you.
ABBY: Let's do it. come on.
(upbeat music playing)
MADDIE: I'm kind of nervous
because it's a really hard competition.
And it's Nationals.
And I really, really want to win.
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome to the stage entry
number 9A.
This is Maddie, performing
"Telling Myself."
(cheers and applause)
SINGER: ♪ Now's the time
you change your mind ♪
♪ And say that you don't want me ♪
♪ Even though I cry sometimes ♪
♪ I know in the back of my mind... ♪
ABBY: Maddie is on the money.
She's hitting everything.
She has those judges
in the palm of her hand.
It's like watching a 25-year-old
professional on that stage.
SINGER: ♪ At least that's what
I keep telling myself ♪
(cheers and applause)
Good job.
(whooping)
MELISSA: Maddie went out on stage
and did exactly what Abby
wanted her to do.
She wanted the emotions
to be there, her technique.
It was amazing.
ANNOUNCER:
Moving now to entry number 31B.
Please welcome to the stage
Justice performing
"Never Surrender."
(crowd whooping)
(jazz music playing)
ABBY: I'm going
to be livid if Justice beats
these two girls.
I mean, I saw tons of flaws
in the choreography.
CATHY: Justice's kicks are amazing.
His technique is flawless.
I mean, I think he's doing a fabulous job.
And I couldn't be more proud of him.
(upbeat music playing)
Woo-hoo!
Good job.
Maddie, that was a National
award-winning solo.
You just set the bar really high
for everybody else
that's going to dance today.
This is Nationals.
And the Abby Lee Dance
Company came to win.
Stay in on the words.
Abby is so sidetracked
with Cathy being here.
Like, my daughter ran her dance 10 times.
And not once did she even look at her.
Like, she's on stage next.
Brooke is going for a National title.
And nobody's working with her.
ABBY: This is it.
You've come a long way.
And you're going out there
to put Vivi-Anne in her place.
If you don't win,
it defeats the whole purpose
of doing the bee dance.
And I look like an idiot.
And that's not going
to happen around Cathy.
Come on, girls, game faces. Let's do it.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome to the stage
entry number 43A, Brooke,
performing "Diary of Anne Frank."
(dramatic music playing)
KELLY: I don't know if I'm coming back.
But on the same token, I'm hurting my kids
by pulling them out of there.
Because they love to dance.
And so I don't know what's worse.
It's going to be a tough decision.
(cheers and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
KELLY: Brooke was just gorgeous.
Everything she did was perfect.
And for once, Brooke
actually used emotion.
MACKENZIE: I'm really excited
about my dance,
"The Killer Bee."
Except I'm really nervous
because I don't know
Cathy and Vivi-Anne are going to do to me.
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome to the stage
Mackenzie, performing "Killer Bee."
(cheers and applause)
SINGER: ♪ Tastes so sweet
from her head to her feet ♪
♪ No, that's something
that can't be beat ♪
♪ No word of a lie ♪
♪ So don't even try ♪
♪ Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honey bee ♪
♪ Ah, can't you see? ♪
♪ Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honey bee ♪
♪ Ah, can't you see? ♪
CATHY: That stupid bee solo--
I'm not a big fan of this dance, at all.
SINGER: ♪ Ain't no honey sweeter
than my honey bee... ♪
ABBY: Mackenzie loves her costume.
She loves the dance, loves the hair bows.
She loves it all.
And you can tell that
when you're watching her dance.
She stepped out on stage
like that killer bee.
And she'd buzz, buzz, buzz,
buzz, buzzed around that stage
like there was no tomorrow.
I think she gave
those judges a good sting.
And they know all about Mackenzie.
Woo-hoo!
Oh, my gosh.
Congratulations.
CHRISTI: It's time
for Chloe to do her solo.
And this isn't going to be easy.
You know, Chloe's dancing against Maddie.
And Maddie's amazing.
And she's dancing against Justice.
And he's pretty amazing, too.
You dance for Kendall.
And you dance for Nia.
And you dance for Chloe.
Because they wish they had
the same chance you did.
Okay?
Okay. Okay.
CHRISTI: It's coming down
to these two minutes on stage.
You can either do it, or you can choke.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Hey, listen to me.
Maddie went out there--
nailed her number.
Brooke went out there--
nailed that number.
I need you to do it, too.
Okay.
Justice beat me last time.
And now the pressure's on
that I have to beat him.
And I think "Silence" will do that.
ANNOUNCER:
Please welcome to the stage Chloe,
performing "Silence."
SINGER: ♪ I love only silence near ♪
♪ There is noise all the time ♪
♪ I love sunny landscapes ♪
♪ And I love the sky... ♪
HOLLY: I'm very happy
that Chloe won the solo.
She has worked hard.
And I think she has something
to prove to Abby,
that she's a great dancer.
And she can beat Justice.
I think Chloe needs this solo,
probably more than anybody else
at that studio.
SINGER: ♪ Woman who will save ♪
(cheers and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
CHRISTI: No matter what happens
with the outcome of this competition,
Chloe went out there
and she danced as well as she can.
And she didn't choke.
And she believed in herself.
So she won, no matter who gets that crown.
MAN: Five, six, seven, eight...
CATHY: I think that my bushel of Apples
think that it's fun to go up against Abby.
Do they want to see some more
victories underneath their belts?
Of course.
You have to pull it together now.
Okay?
This is Nationals--
National Invitation Energy Dance.
You got to pull it together.
We don't want to go home big time losers.
Everybody got their umbrellas?
MAN: Let's do it. Let's go.
CATHY: All right. Let's go, guys.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome to the stage
Candy Apples Dance Company
with "The Storm."
(cheers and applause)
(rain storm sounds)
(thunder rumbling)
CATHY: I'm really excited
about our group number.
It's creative.
And it's original.
And pieced all together,
it's very well done.
SINGER: ♪ Take, take me from life ♪
♪ It's pouring ♪
♪ And there was life ♪
♪ And there was pain ♪
♪ And peer pressure once again ♪
♪ My heart is flooding ♪
♪ My soul is drowning
my tears are flowing ♪
♪ I go out ♪
♪ Be my raincoat, my raincoat,
my raincoat ♪
(applause)
ANNOUNCER: Thank you.
ABBY: If I was judging,
there is no way that this routine
would be winning.
But I'm not a judge.
And I don't know those three people.
Let the talent speak for itself.
All right. Come on, girls.
-I need you to focus.
-(tense music playing)
This is Nationals.
We came all this way
and worked hard and rehearsed
in crappy little studios
to get to this point.
Don't blow it right now.
Don't be the kid that ruins
the entire number.
I'm confident.
The girls are confident.
But you never know.
This is a national competition.
Everybody came to win.
Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Please welcome
to the stage "The Last Text."
Go, girls.
I'm a little afraid that something called
"The Last Text" may be a little too bloody
and gory for a national title.
(tense music playing)
(tires screech)
(crashes)
(dramatic music playing)
CATHY: Abby's girls come out.
And you know, at first, I'm thinking,
she's dragging out
this crappy-looking car seat.
Did that come off
of Christi's front porch?
I don't know.
But I have to tell you that her piece
was just absolutely brilliant.
ABBY: There came that moment
where it was silent.
And in a choreographer's life,
or a dance teacher's life,
those moments are few and far between.
Nobody knew whether to clap,
or cry, or what to do.
That was a great moment in my life.
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Wow.
Okay, thank you, ladies.
Big round of applause
for our t-shirt throwers.
All right, everybody.
In third place, Energy Petite Solo
goes to entry number 2,
"Black Betty," Diego
from Beach City Dance Center.
Our second place Energy Petite Solo
goes to entry number 31,
"It's All About Me,"
from Beach City Dance Center.
And our first place top-scoring
Energy Petite Soloist
goes to entry number 52A,
"Killer Bee," Mackenzie
from the Abby Lee Dance Center.
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Mackenzie is also
our title winner for Miss Energy.
So we would like to crown her now.
Congratulations.
(cheers and applause)
She's not Maddie.
But she's Mackenzie
and she's an amazing little dancer.
I'm just very proud of her.
ANNOUNCER: We're going
to move over to the Energy Teen Solo.
Our fourth place top score
goes to entry number 66, "Essence."
Our second place goes
to "White, Blank Page,"
Dominique from (indistinct)
In our first place Energy Teen Solo,
Miss Energy being crowned
for our 2012 National Finals
here in LA goes to Brooke Hyland,
(indistinct)
Abby Lee Dance Center.
KELLY: Brooke won this national title
without Abby's help.
Brooke worked her butt off
in that dressing room all by herself.
She did that without her dance teacher.
ANNOUNCER: Moving on
to our Energy Junior Solo Division.
In fourth place is entry number 31A, Mary,
performing "Can't Touch It,"
from SMCB Dance Center.
CHRISTI: So we're down to the final three.
And the last three dancers standing
are Justice, Chloe, and Maddie.
Any spot that she gets,
I'm going to be proud.
She couldn't have danced better.
Third place goes to...
"Never Surrender," Justice
from the Candy Apple Dance Center.
CHRISTI: Hallelujah.
Chloe beat Justice.
And second place Junior Solo--
which was very, very close,
by a fifth of a point, goes to
"Telling Myself," Maddie Ziegler
from the Abby Lee Dance Center.
(cheers and applause)
Oh, my God.
CHRISTI: As soon as they announced Maddie
as the second place winner,
everybody there knew Chloe won.
ANNOUNCER: And our first place
Energy Junior Solo
for our Nationals in Beverly Hills,
also been crowned Miss Energy,
goes to Chloe
from the Abby Lee Dance Center.
Congratulations.
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: And we are going to crown
Chloe Miss Energy today.
CHLOE: It feels really good to be
winning Junior Miss Energy
and getting the crown
and plaque and the trophy.
And this is a really good step
in my dance career.
And I just hope that
Maddie's happy for me, too.
Because I'm always happy
for her when she wins.
ANNOUNCER: Congratulations, Chloe.
So how do you feel about
Little Miss Energy?
Really good.
ANNOUNCER: Well,
everybody did a wonderful job.
Take a bow.
ABBY: Chloe--
outstanding in her performance.
She was the winner.
She stood there very proud
to win that crown.
And I'm thrilled.
ANNOUNCER: We're going to move over
to the Energy Junior Small Group.
In third place, "The Story,"
Eight Count Dance Academy.
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Second place goes
to the "Troop Beverly Hills,"
-Eight Count Dance Academy.
-(cheers and applause)
And our top scoring National winner
for the Energy Junior Small Group
goes to entry number 130A...
-(upbeat music playing)
-(cheers and applause)
Good job, girls!
Woo-hoo!
We did it.
We came to Nationals.
We won.
GIRLS: Abby Lee Dance Company!
ABBY: The Abby Lee
Dance Company remains a force
to be reckoned with.
(tense music playing)
CATHY: There are few dances,
in my lifetime,
that I have literally walked away
and thought about days later.
And I just wanted to keep
reliving Abby's "Last Text" number
because it was brilliant.
JILL: Kelly, what's wrong?
Nothing. I just--
it's hard to watch your kids on stage
and think it's the last time
you're gonna watch them dance.
I just don't want to come back.
It has been a really hard year.
I--I'm just tired of Abby
and just the way she treats them.
Personally, I don't want
to get into an argument.
But I think a lot of things
are taken for granted.
And I think you don't know
how lucky you have it
and how lucky your kids are.
KELLY: How can you really say
that my kids are lucky, really?
They're here.
Every other dance studio,
they're back in Pittsburgh already.
People think I'm cold.
They don't realize the hell that
that woman has put me through.
Find somebody else that's gonna do
what I've done for your children.
I thought Brooke was outstanding.
Yeah. But Brooke was outstanding
because Brooke went over there
and practiced on her own.
Right, Kelly.
She's 14 years old.
-And she should.
-The entire day.
She finally wanted something.
The reason she's third, or fourth,
or sixth is because of her face.
She wised up.
She went out there and she should--
she did what she should have
been doing in September.
(girls cheering)
-JILL: Congratulations!
-(dramatic music playing)
Congratulations.
You were beautiful.
Everybody's back in the dressing room.
The kids are celebrating.
They know they went out
there and nailed it.
They felt the response
of the judges and the audience.
Girls, congratulations.
Everybody that danced the solo,
you were outstanding.
You beat Justice. Woo-hoo.
Brooke, you beat all those girls
that were two feet taller
and their legs were up to here.
And the group number,
everybody did what they needed to do.
And everybody was an integral part of it.
And I thought it was wonderful.
We did it.
Justice...
ALL: Has been served.
ABBY: Congratulations.
JILL: Thank you, Abby.
CHRISTI: I really hope, sincerely,
from the bottom of my heart,
that you put some time
and space between yourself
and this situation,
and you think things through.
HOLLY: I never really thought
that the time would come that
Kelly would make
a decision that she's done.
Nobody here...
wants to see any of you leave.
MELISSA: The team definitely won't be
the same without Kelly, Paige, and Brooke.
Dysfunctional as it may be,
we're definitely a family.
CHRISTI: This team is not
a team without you guys.
It's not. You're my sister.
And you're my family.
You cannot leave me here.
(tense music playing)
You can't.